---
layout: post
title: Radiological Health Engineering Laboratory
subtitle: Software development for radiation dosimetry
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/rhe.jpg
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [umich]
author: Joy Han
---
This year, I've been working as a software and web developer for the [Radiological Health Engineering (RHE) Laboratory](https://rhelab.engin.umich.edu/) at the University of Michigan. I joined the lab through the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program with the guidance of my mentor, Dr. Jordan Noey. This project is a software package that fits mathematical models to the glow curves generated by thermoluminescent dosimeters. As for my contributions, I'm building a web interface from the ground up, allowing for improved flexibility of analysis. Our ultimate goal is to make our package open-source and available to other researchers.  

Below is my abstract documenting my work!

_Thermoluminescent dosimeters are well-known tools that provide information on integrated dose. When heated, they produce glow curves that quantify absorbed radiation doses. Software programs are a fast and convenient way to interpret glow curve data, but individual researchers often require flexibility to customize their scientific approach—for example, different physics models and statistical analysis methods may be applicable to specific materials. However, refactoring the source code of an existing program to support the desired functionality poses a significant technical challenge to most researchers. This project focuses on improving accessibility by building an expanded web interface for the glow curve analysis software, designed and repackaged so that people with varying levels of technical experience can still conduct in-depth analysis. The web application will utilize a Python backend that incorporates a C++ executable, complemented by a frontend built with HTML and CSS. Full-stack integration will be achieved using Flask and Jinja2 templating. In addition to a wider range of analytical models, this updated version of the software will implement improved options for data visualization, such as formatting and display selections. Finally, the introduction of in-file documentation and internal code refinements will ensure that the software is maintainable in the long term and usable by the broader research community. The goal is to transition the glow curve analysis software to an open-source repository, providing a transparent and accessible package for curve fitting that other researchers will benefit from.
_
