---
layout: post
title: Michigan Mars Rover Team
subtitle: Jury still out on whether life exists in Utah
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/rover.jpg
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [umich]
author: Joy Han
---

It's difficult to describe the experience of meeting Kiwi for the first time. Kiwi, after all, cannot introduce itself---it's a complicated piece of machinery on wheels, with cables running down the length of its frame and various electronics fastened to its body. But when Kiwi rolled its way over to me and handed me a slip of paper using its robotic arm, I was enchanted before I even read the contents of the paper. (Of course, it was an advertisement for MRover. What a shill you are, Kiwi.)

This year, I'm working on building Kiwi's successor: a rover that will compete in the [University Rover Challenge](https://mrover.org/about/). The event, held annually in Utah, consists of challenges that range from finding water bottles in the desert to collecting soil samples and analyzing potential signs of life. I'm part of the Teleoperations subteam in the Software division, and we're responsible for the GUI that operators will use to control and monitor the rover. 

For this role, I'm learning the basics of web development using JavaScript, CSS, HTML, and other frameworks like Vue.js. This is a bit of a departure from my prior knowledge in backend development, but I'm excited to gain frontend and full-stack experience. In addition, I am working with the Windows and Linux operating systems instead of my preferred MacOS. It will be a lot to learn, but since we've got our eyes on Mars, I may as well aim high. 
